.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH VLC 1 "March 10, 2001"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
vlc, gvlc, gnome-vlc, qvlc \- The VideoLAN Client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vlc
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.RI [ PARAMETERS ]
.RI [ ITEMS ]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B vlc
, a free MPEG, MPEG2 and DVD player.
.SH ITEMS
.B vlc
recognizes several URL-style items:
.TP
.B *.mpg, *.vob
Plain MPEG-1/2 files
.TP
.B dvd:<device>[@<raw device>]
DVD device (for instance dvd:/dev/dvd). The raw device is optional and
must have been prepared beforehands.
.TP
.B vcd:<device>
VCD device (for instance dvd:/dev/cdrom).
.TP
.B udpstream:[<server>:[<server port>]][@[<bind address>][:<bind port>]]
UDP stream, such as one sent by VideoLAN Server or VideoLAN miniserver.
Usually "udpstream:" is enough.
.TP
.B vlc:<command>
Execute a play-list command. Commands are :
.B loop
(loop the playlist),
.B pause
(pause execution of other items), and
.B quit
(close VLC).
.SH OPTIONS
.B vlc
follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (`-').
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-I, \-\-intf <module>
Specify an interface module: "gnome", "curses", "qt", for instance.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Set
.B vlc
verbosity. This command is cumulative, you can use "-vv" or "-vvvv" for increased verbosity.
.TP
.B \-\-memcpy <module>
Specify a module for performing heavy memory copies: "memcpy", "sse" for instance.
.TP
.B \-\-noaudio
Disable audio output.
.TP
.B \-A, \-\-aout <module>
Specify an audio output module: "dsp", "esd", for instance.
.TP
.B \-\-stereo, \-\-mono
Choose stereo or mono audio output.
.TP
.B \-\-spdif
Activate hardware AC3 pass-through mode.
.TP
.B \-\-downmix <module>
Specify a module for AC3 downmix: "downmix", "sse" or "3dn" for instance.
.TP
.B \-\-imdct <module>
Specify a module for AC3 IMDCT: "imdct", sse" or "3dn"  for instance.
.TP
.B \-\-volume [1..1024]
Change VLC output volume (default: 512).
.TP
.B \-\-novideo
Disable video output.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-vout <module>
Specify a video output module: "x11", "sdl", "fb", for instance.
.TP
.B \-\-motion <module>
Specify a module for motion compensation: "motion", "motionmmx", for instance.
.TP
.B \-\-idct <module>
Specify a module for IDCT: "idct", "idctmmx", for instance.
.TP
.B \-\-yuv <module>
Specify a YUV module: "yuv", "yuvmmx", for instance.
.TP
.B \-\-display <display>
Specify the display name.
.TP
.B \-\-width <w>, \-\-height <h>
Choose the display coordinates.
.TP
.B \-g, \-\-grayscale
Grayscale output.
.TP
.B \-\-fullscreen
Full screen output.
.TP
.B \-\-overlay
Overlay (hardware accelerated output), if available.
.TP
.B \-\-xvadaptor <port>
Select XVideo adaptor, if XVideo output is used.
.TP
.B \-\-color
Color output.
.TP
.B \-\-synchro <type>
Choose a fixed synchro value instead of the internal auto-adaptative
heuristics based on CPU usage.

`I' displays only I images, `IP' displays I and P images, `IP+'
displays I and P images and every second B image, and `IPB' forces
displaying of all images.

Note that vlc is not guaranteed to behave properly if you ask it to
display more images than your CPU can cope with.
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-dvdtitle <title>
Choose the DVD title. Most movies on DVDs start on the first title, but you may want to manually select another title.
.TP
.B \-T, \-\-dvdchapter <title>
Choose the DVD chapter. DVDs are divided into titles, which in turn are divided into chapters.
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-dvdaudio [ ac3 | lpcm | mpeg | off ]
Choose the audio channel type. Most DVDs have AC3 audio channels, but
you can also have Linear PCM or MPEG layer 2 sound. Also, one might decide
not to activate the audio channel.
.TP
.B \-u, \-\-dvdangle <num>
Choose the angle, available on some DVDs.
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-dvdchannel [ 0\-15 ]
Select the audio channel. Most DVDs only have one or two audio channels,
but some of them have a great number of available languages. Note that the
audio channel will also depend on the channel type.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-dvdsubtitle [ 0\-31 ]
Select the subtitle channel, if there is one in the stream.
.TP
.B \-\-dvdcss-method <method>
Select the CSS decryption scheme when using libdvdcss. Usually to choose
from "disc", "title" or "key", but depends on your libdvdcss version.
.TP
.B \-\-dvdcss-verbose <level>
Select the CSS decryption verbosity level, 0, 1 or 2.
.TP
.B \-\-input <method>
Choose the input method, "dvd", "ps", "ts" for instance.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print help and exit.
.TP
.B \-H, \-\-longhelp
Print long help and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Output version information and exit.
.SH PARAMETERS
.B vlc
also accepts a lot of parameters to customize its behaviour.
.TP
.B Interface parameters:
 vlc_intf=<method name>   interface method
.TP
.B Audio parameters:
 vlc_aout=<method name>  	audio method
 vlc_dsp=<filename>      	dsp device path
 vlc_stereo={1|0}        	stereo or mono output
 vlc_spdif={1|0}         	AC3 pass-through mode
 vlc_downmix=<method name>      AC3 downmix method
 vlc_imdct=<method name>        AC3 IMDCT method
 vlc_volume=[0..1024]		VLC output volume
 vlc_audio_rate=<rate>    	output rate
.TP
.B Video parameters:
 vlc_vout=<method name>        display method
 vlc_display=<display>         display used
 vlc_width=<width>             display width
 vlc_height=<height>           dislay height
 vlc_fb_dev=<filename>         framebuffer device
 vlc_grayscale={1|0}           grayscale or color
 vlc_fullscreen={1|0}          full screen
 vlc_overlay={1|0}             overlay
 vlc_xvport=<port>             XVideo port
 vlc_motion=<method name>      motion compensation method
 vlc_idct=<method name>        IDCT method
 vlc_yuv=<method name>         YUV method
 vlc_synchro={I|I+|IP|IP+|IPB} synchro algorithm
.TP
.B DVD parameters:
 vlc_dvd_device=<device>           DVD device
 vlc_input_title=<title>           title number
 vlc_input_chapter=<chapter>       chapter number
 vlc_input_angle=<angle>           angle number
 vlc_input_audio={ac3|lpcm|mpeg|off} audio type
 vlc_input_channel=[0-15]          audio channel
 vlc_input_subtitle=[0-31]         subtitle channel
.TP
.B Input parameters:
 vlc_iface=<interface>    network interface

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vls (1), vlms (1)
.br
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Samuel Hocevar <sam@zoy.org>, for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
